-*- text -*-

To reach the author of RubyMail, send mail to matt@lickey.com.

This is RubyMail, a lightweight mail library containing various mail
utility classes and modules.

This package is currently very raw.  There is no documentation.  All
API is subject to change.  I very much appreciate suggestions and
comments!

This package has a complete unit test suite (requires RubyUnit to
run).  Currently all of my e-mail is processed by this library.

Current functionality includes:

    An RFC 2822 address parser .  All legal syntax is parsed
    correctly.  The parser is forgiving (it accepts some illegal
    syntax).  The parser will never raise an exception on bad input,
    instead opting to simply not return an address for something it
    cannot parse.

    A Mail::Header class that can be used to parse just the mail
    header from an input stream, manipulate it, and then print it out
    again.

    A Mail::Message class that can be used to read both the mail
    header and mail body from an input stream, manipulate it, and then
    print it out again.

    A Mail::Deliver module that contains methods used to deliver to
    various kinds of mailboxes.  The message object being delivered
    need only implement the 'each' method.

    A Mail::LDA class that can be used to implement a custom mail
    delivery agent (like procmail).

    A sample use of Mail::LDA in the deliver.rb and main.rb scripts.

Why?

    I have used procmail for years, but generally dislike it.
    Non-trivial mail handling in procmail is not intuitive and often
    requires external commands.

    To replace procmail, I've often wanted simple classes to
    manipulate e-mail and deliver them to various mailbox formats.

Why write this when package Foo does the same thing?

    Because writing this is fun.  :-)

Why not use TMail?

    Another mature mail library is available for Ruby -- TMail by
    Minero Aoki.  I do not think RubyMail is better than TMail, just
    different.  In particular, RubyMail has no MIME or character
    encoding handling yet.  So it may be faster, but it has fewer
    features.

Why not use Scarlet?

    Another mail program for Ruby is Scarlet.  I keep having problems
    accessing the Scarlet web pages, but it looks like it is a mail
    LDA like procmail.  It looks like Scarlet uses TMail.

License and Copyright

    The copyright and license of this file is as follows.  Please
    verify each source file in this package for its license.
 
    Copyright (c) 2001 Matt Armstrong.  All rights reserved.

    Permission is granted for use, copying, modification,
    distribution, and distribution of modified versions of this work
    as long as the above copyright notice is included.
